As an experienced IT professional with over 8 years of industry experience, I bring a wealth of technical knowledge and proficiency in Java, CI/CD, and front-end technologies. My expertise lies in core Java concepts such as Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, data structures, and algorithms, as well as designing and developing applications using Spring Frameworks and Spring DAO. With a solid understanding of agile methodology and experience using Jira as an agile tool, I have hands-on experience with a wide range of technologies, including Java 8, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, RDBMS, Java Script, jQuery, Ajax, XML, Oracle 11g, and Apache Kafka. In addition to being comfortable developing front-end forms using AJAX, JSPs, JavaScript, and CSS, I have extensive knowledge of SQL working with Oracle, MySQL, Postgres, and PLSQL. My proficiency extends to   network protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, and JMS Messaging Services. With experience debugging in EJB and business object-related modules, I am proficient in dealing with external platform-oriented services and end-to-end compatibility. I am also experienced in web front-end development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JSPs, and in database development and writing SQL/PL-SQL scripts for scheduler jobs and JSON. With a solid understanding of version control tools like GitHub, IBM Serena, Tortoise SVN, and experience in continuous integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, Gradle, Apache ANT, Apache IVY, and Jenkins, I have deployed and configured application servers such as IBM WebSphere and JBoss. I have strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills, and I am comfortable collaborating with onsite as well as offshore teams and coordinating with business to convert business requirements into technical specifications. A self-starter with the ability to learn and adapt quickly to new emerging technologies, I have experience developing and managing Microservices using Spring Cloud services like Config server, Service Registry, Hystrix and Circuit Breaker Patterns using Spring Boot, as well as securing applications using Spring Security with different authentication/authorization techniques including Basic Authentication, OAuth 2.0, and LDAP.